+++
[taxonomies]
period=["1989", "1996"]
+++

I was born at 14:30 on Monday, April 24, 1989, in Kurgan, Russia. We lived in a large family with my mum, aunt, and their parents. 

Sadly, my grandfather was paralyzed last four years of his life and had to be cared about 24/7. I remember some moments with him while he still could speak and drive. Around the time of his death, my mum took me to a yoga retreat at Lake Gorkoe near our town. I was deeply impressed, they were all fasting for the whole week and still cooking for their kids. We started going to yoga classes later, but I was so excited being around her outside the busy home that I made myself a distraction in the class. Only many years later could I understand how horrifying this kind of imprisonment in one's own body is when my aunt got sick too and lost her speech. 

My cousin, three years older than me, was my closest friend through all the time in our birth town, we were often staying together in the summer house or watching Queen music videos on the VHS. Much more of my far relatives I learned through their weddings but more funerals, and rarely birthdays. 

My auntie was a judge, on criminal cases in the '90s, so I heard a lot of what my fellow humans did. Far and close relatives came for her advice now and then, and I heard their stories too, these weren't scary at all, mostly about inheritance and divorces. I picked some of her books, which made her hopeful I'd follow her path and study law. 

Overall, my impression of life was getting a little practical but I was also wondering what's the point of all this. Religion was offering some answers but I already knew there were many religions, unable to agree even with each other, and not bringing any ultimate happiness upon people.
