+++
period=["2016","2019"]
+++

I took the first two months to prepare and implement a portfolio in Meteor.js, which made it my first full-stack project. I tested my presentation-ready portfolio website through a couple of interviews but I was also looking for a job that would bring about a positive change in this world. Environmental and social sustainability became my areas of interest. 

I found a job at PRé as they were looking for a front-end with an eye for UX. I felt confident enough about my development skills, being able to adapt, and ready to put my UX skills and knowledge forward. I joined the team of two back-end developers and two testers and started slowly on their large codebase: implementing features in angular.js and knockout.js, learning TypeScript, and maintaining existing and building new features. I made interactive prototypes in Balsamiq and Sketch, and later some coded prototypes and proofs of technical concepts. For my first big feature, I studied the LCA modeling closer along with go.js, trying to come to a natural “translation” of one into another, I encouraged user testing and iteration in y team. I brought my previous experience with git and helped our team to migrate the codebase from VSTS. Angular 6+ was around and I practiced in my free time. I proposed to make a hybrid app and gradually migrate necessary features to the new framework. I set up the new build and the hybrid project. Our team started to deliver new features faster using the new framework. 

At the same time as we continued the development lot more maintenance was needed to keep the GUI and API compatible. A junior front-end developer was hired, I was new to teaching programming but we did a lot of pair programming learning RxJS and Angular. 