+++
period=["2018", "2020"]
+++

Trying to keep an eye on my work-life balance I returned to painting as a hobby. Small format felt difficult but then I remembered batik and started painting on large format fabric. I never developed a film myself but I read about alternative processes, cyanotype was an easy one to try at home and I already remembered it from my childhood. With a few trials, I got a nice cyanotype print on fabric and started combining the two techniques, sometimes using my film negatives or simply placing objects to make an exposure. 

At work, I asked for someone who consult us on front-end architecture as I wasn't fully happy with mine still considering myself a coding designer, not a developer. The developer who joined us proposed to switch to react.js as it would also simplify the search for new developers. We still had to keep all the existing features so I build an integration with the hybrid app but we now had a react shell. Together with our team lead I worked on writing code generator and SDK for our API. I later got more confident with .net and picked up some of the small back-end tasks. I've also organised some design sessions with our team but these brought more divergence in opinions on how the product should be rather than clarity. Our product evolution from something that different customers are asking for into a real-world problem solver was interrupted by COVID-19 and the lockdown. Right before the lockdown, I did a technical interview with our new senior front-end developer, he was not the all-knowing type but could reason about software, and user experience, read the docs, brought many best practices to our team, and started the real growth later. Both of us seeing web accessibility as important we encouraged semantic markup and accessible 3-rd party components in our team.