+++
[taxonomies]
period=["2022", "2023"]
+++

As a product designer at work, I made prototypes in Figma, user tests, and qualitative analyses of the interviews. With our PO's help, we organized one Google Ventures design sprint, which I facilitated, made prototypes and processed the interviews. I later organized a series of workshops following the IDEO design kit and made a prototype of an app visualizing Social Impact Assessment results in Figma, prepared and processed interviews, and created a coded prototype using observablehq.com REPL notebooks. My team wanted to see more preliminary research along with my designs and improve the developer handout. 

A colleague mentioned that she took a Zen meditation retreat in a monastery in Uithuizen, the Netherlands. Feeling inspired by someone around me taking a silent retreat, I signed up for Gyoji week at Zen River temple. Just a week of what felt like a monastic living, the strong meditation practice they taught, and time in the library which I hadn't since school, all this encouraged me to proceed on my path. I returned home and remembered a book suggested by my yoga teacher friend - “Anatomy Trains” by Thomas W. Myers. To my pleasure, the book was starting with a chapter on systems thinking, which I was already familiar with but it's the Anatomy Trains book together with Yin Yoga, and Quigong practices that helped me to internalize the systems thinking approach, learn to apply it to my own body and further outwards.

Considering me in the UXE role again, we decided I work on better defining our design system and design-ops. I prepared an extensive inventory of our components in Figma and codebase, proposed a structure aligned with atomic design principles, and proposed several options for the implementation of the design-ops. 