+++
+++

I was born at 14:30 on Monday, April 24, 1989, in Kurgan, Russia. We lived in a large family with my mum, aunt, and their parents. Sadly, my grandfather was paralyzed last four years of his life and had to be cared about 24/7. I remember some moments with him while he still could speak and drive. Around the time of his death, my mum took me to a yoga retreat at Lake Gorkoe near our town. I was deeply impressed, they were all fasting for the whole week and still cooking for their kids. We started going to yoga classes later, but I was so excited being around her outside the busy home that I made myself a distraction in the class. Only many years later could I understand how horrifying this kind of imprisonment in one's own body is when my aunt got sick too and lost her speech. My cousin, three years older than me, was my closest friend through all the time in our birth town, we were often staying together in the summer house or watching Queen music videos on the VHS. Much more of my far relatives I learned through their weddings but more funerals, and rarely birthdays. My auntie was a judge, on criminal cases in the '90s, so I heard a lot of what my fellow humans did. Far and close relatives came for her advice now and then, and I heard their stories too, these weren't scary at all, mostly about inheritance and divorces. I picked some of her books, which made her hopeful I'd follow her path and study law. Overall, my impression of life was getting a little practical but I was also wondering what's the point of all this. Religion was offering some answers but I already knew there were many religions, unable to agree even with each other, and not bringing any ultimate happiness upon people. 

I went to public school №22. My first memory of that is being told that there were not 8 red and 2 orange circles but 10 red circles instead… “Well, as you pleased” I sat down. My last memory is me and my mum boarding the train to Saint Petersburg instead of going to my school graduation party. 

I thought I was going to pursue medical education. I had a  Psychiatry magazine subscription. Being a lonely kid I even came up with an imaginary narcissistic friend, who would cheer me up when preparing for biology and chemistry exams. During the last two years of school, I took nursing courses and passed examinational practice in emergency hospital №1 as a junior nurse. It made one of the best summers, other nurses were fun to talk with and I felt I was doing something helpful. I also, realized that I wouldn't want to work in healthcare, as it wouldn't benefit my personality to see people suffering as my daily job.

A friend of mine, who was already studying psychology at the time, picked up photography as a hobby, we planned to take some shoots in a forest. I made us costumes, which seemed to me like a fun process. I later made a few more, much inspired by Anna Varney from the Sopor Aeternus and The Ensemble of Shadows. Being short on time, as I changed my course and had to choose for which kind of entry exams to prepare, I thought, fashion design could be my thing, as I liked working with fabric and drawing. To my huge disappointment at the time, my academic drawing skills weren't there, not even after a year of taking a course, at least that was my judgment when I looked at the examples. So I looked for something a little more practical, at the same time accepting that formal degrees won't matter much in my view of life.

My cousin moved to Saint Petersburg, so I was naturally looking for a study there. I found just quite the description I was looking for. The High School of Fashion and Applicable Arts - formally a technical college. We studied sketching, pattern making, textile, and technology, this is also where I learned about batik. Each of us could go from a blank sheet of paper to a well-fit coat. Sadly, once there was an inspection of the college and my friend and I filed a complaint, explaining it's cold in the study rooms and there's nowhere to eat at lunchtime other than Georgian restaurant, super yum but we were just students. We may have hoped to change things but we closed our college instead. This made me quite ashamed, for a long time I wasn't even showing up in my beloved area of the city and came up with self-accusing jokes. My group and I still graduated but our last year was in a different place. During my whole study, I made some clothes and even took private orders, and I was happy to try anything saying its at my own risk; I did suits for men and women, dresses and coats, overalls, a wedding dress. For my graduation project, I was the one using CAD for a collection of suits. 

Lacking what I thought was a normal family in my childhood and realizing myself as a homosexual I tried to meet someone via dating sites. Some were creeps, some were like me, and all were looking to feel someone close. 

I later took a more extensive CAD course and landed my first job in Leonid Alexeev's design studio. I enjoyed our first projects, I made patterns for jerseys following his designs, and we made suits for private orders. The studio took a larger order to make casual wear for the FC Zenit. The production was to be done in China. With a new colleague who had some experience working on such a project, we made two seasons of jerseys, knitwear, trousers, and jackets. My Adobe Illustrator skill improved greatly, I made patterns and measurement lists, set up our office network so that we can exchange files, and made samples and documentation that we sent to our suppliers. This continued for a year, but I came to realize that my overall impression of the fashion industry along with the audience was as toxic, boring, or rather deeply bored, humiliating, and such a waste of resources that I turned to my newly gained interest in computers and supposedly less resource intensive ways of creation.

I started learning web and graphics design in my free time also inspired by my boyfriend who was a programmer. All tutorials were focused on Photoshop but I figured Illustrator is my saviour and stick with that. The CAD GRAFIS allowed programmable macros, so my last collars were code generated and I got my taster of programming. Once I had my first paid freelance project I left the studio. The project was not what I hoped for visually, but a detailed prototype of an intranet help page for a telecom company made in Axure RP.

I looked for more freelance orders, but soon, a man I dated during college times, invited me to join a project team of O.F.I.S. which intended to make universal pages for small-scale entrepreneurs. I thought it might be a problem to join your ex's team, but I was sure I'll do my best to keep my distance. I made my first mockups in Illustrator but also had a chance to learn HTML and CSS, which turned SASS almost instantly. My next mockups were static pages. iOS and its skeuomorphism were around, so my boss challenged me with a skeuomorphic design implemented in pure CSS. I learned a lot about how browser paints and the why's behind it by reading W3C docs and published discussions. The project never saw the world as one day he decided to make games instead. Rather surprised I stayed as it was a job and I was still learning a lot.

Around that time I tried Instagram and read more about their choice of square images, polaroids, and medium format photography. I picked up MF film photography as my hobby and bought a Soviet copy of Hasselblad - Kiev 88. I was pleased to see my first analogous pictures, less so to find my camera jams the film now and then. I got my favorite camera since then the Mamiya RB-67. It made 10 precious shoots and the roll had to be developed and scanned, making it pricy to take pictures which I was less sure about. I loved the constraint of being able to take just a few images as it promoted some spark of mindfulness before pressing the button. I wanted to share the inspiration with my friends, who I knew were comfortable with professional cameras. I made a few bids for Kodak Aerochrome film, we've got two rolls and shared two shoots each on each film.

At work, now as team Mozgy, we started working on his idea of an entertainment app, it was supposed to show short and funny stories with illustrations (like memes but paid). I studied iOS guides and made several designs, there was even a version made from colored plasticine, which I photographed part by part in different states and then edited together, for once Photoshop was helpful. I was starting to make contacts with potential story writers and illustrators but there came another change of course. We hired a game designer, later, together with her two programmers and two illustrators. It was going to be an educational game. Once we were done with level 1 with all the smooth animations and pretty graphics, we started planning a test. I suggested implementing screen and camera recording for testing purposes. We demoed the game at the Winter Nights conference, but it didn't get much attention. Without any more testing, the project came to an end. I was the one to inform our team. A year later we were all to see our founder's name is on the local newspaper, he's being put in jail and accused of pedophilia. 

Looking for a new job, I took more courses on user experience design and joined a software studio DDG. We made solutions for business automation. My first projects were mobile apps for local taxi operators or beauty clinic staff. It was fun, I felt more secure about the business where I'm working. I was also learning a lot about development and design for different platforms.

My first big project was an app for pipeline engineers. Together with the client's db engineer we analysed several pipelines and picked a few to use in mockups. I made mockups of an Android app showing different views on a real pipeline, and linked up the screens in PDF, with some changes on board we started the development. Through several revisions of the app and the prototype, I was discussing user experience and our design with the client, together with the team preparing the app for a field test. The test brought up many improvements to our design and implementation, which gave me a chance to practice creating Android layouts in XML code. We also designed an integration with external equipment. 

A different project came this time and I became a project manager. We did online quizzes and localisations of movie websites for the CIS division of a famous animation company. We later took on more of their websites including the one of the tv-channel, CMS, and some of the generic services they used across all websites. During this project, I had to tell someone they were fired, despite all the beers we've had. I still don't find it very acceptable to use a text file in place of a database in production. I at the same time regret this my whole time since then, as it was favoring me and my boyfriend over his family. Our team then grew with more developers and improved the process with the help of our CTO. I've also turned more to the developers' side now advocating for them and finding time to get to their level of detail. I learned git, operating our docker infrastructure, build systems and more, I could fix or at least get necessary information outside of their working hours, sometimes working with them when we had an overnight release.

This last project brought me enough money to live with my boyfriend and pay for his master's and our English school, he could leave his programmer job and study urban design, I took courses on user experience, HCD, HCI, CS, communication science, and more. It also brought much responsibility and stress. I returned to yoga classes to cope with that. Yoga helped me a great deal but also to realize there's more than work in my life. At home we thought up an app for urban studies, I took interviews from some of his group, made a simple prototype, and even started coding some front-end. But this time it didn't work to keep a distance between work and life so we stopped with the project.  He found a PhD position in the Netherlands and we moved.

I took the first two months to prepare and implement a portfolio in Meteor.js, which made it my first full-stack project. I tested my presentation-ready portfolio website through a couple of interviews but I was also looking for a job that would bring about a positive change in this world. Environmental and social sustainability became my areas of interest. I found a job at PRé as they were looking for a front-end with an eye for UX. I felt confident enough about my development skills, being able to adapt, and ready to put my UX skills and knowledge forward. I joined the team of two back-end developers and two testers and started slowly on their large codebase: implementing features in angular.js and knockout.js, learning TypeScript, and maintaining existing and building new features. I made interactive prototypes in Balsamiq and Sketch, and later some coded prototypes and proofs of technical concepts. For my first big feature, I studied the LCA modeling closer along with go.js, trying to come to a natural “translation” of one into another, I encouraged user testing and iteration in y team. I brought my previous experience with git and helped our team to migrate the codebase from VSTS. Angular 6+ was around and I practiced in my free time. I proposed to make a hybrid app and gradually migrate necessary features to the new framework. I set up the new build and the hybrid project. Our team started to deliver new features faster using the new framework. At the same time as we continued the development lot more maintenance was needed to keep the GUI and API compatible. A junior front-end developer was hired, I was new to teaching programming but we did a lot of pair programming learning RxJS and Angular. 

Inspired by my job, Angular community, and life in the new country I took up more learning. At home, I was learning TDD with Angular and even made karma-hue-reporter which would adjust the lights according to passing or failing tests. I tried to get a taste of having a pet project of my own and started looking into designing my own programming language and environment. Which brought me to learning rust as my first systemic language.

I was encouraged by our director to also study systems thinking and disruptive innovation. I took courses, and read books and publications on systems thinking. I organized with people from our several teams, drawing individual system diagrams of our product and how it solves a real-world problem. My diagram focused on the efficient communication of LCA study results through our software, presenting the communication system. This cross-team activity outlined the system of subsystems people in the company saw in itself and its product.

My yoga and meditation practice also improved a great deal, thanks to Ashtanga yoga classes and all the yoga teachers publishing their lessons for free. I engaged more with Buddhist philosophy.

Trying to keep an eye on my work-life balance I returned to painting as a hobby. Small format felt difficult but then I remembered batik and started painting on large format fabric. I never developed a film myself but I read about alternative processes, cyanotype was an easy one to try at home and I already remembered it from my childhood. With a few trials, I got a nice cyanotype print on fabric and started combining the two techniques, sometimes using my film negatives or simply placing objects to make an exposure. 

At work, I asked for someone who consult us on front-end architecture as I wasn't fully happy with mine still considering myself a coding designer, not a developer. The developer who joined us proposed to switch to react.js as it would also simplify the search for new developers. We still had to keep all the existing features so I build an integration with the hybrid app but we now had a react shell. Together with our team lead I worked on writing code generator and SDK for our API. I later got more confident with .net and picked up some of the small back-end tasks. I've also organised some design sessions with our team but these brought more divergence in opinions on how the product should be rather than clarity. Our product evolution from something that different customers are asking for into a real-world problem solver was interrupted by COVID-19 and the lockdown. Right before the lockdown, I did a technical interview with our new senior front-end developer, he was not the all-knowing type but could reason about software, and user experience, read the docs, brought many best practices to our team, and started the real growth later. Both of us seeing web accessibility as important we encouraged semantic markup and accessible 3-rd party components in our team.

I found remote work more beneficial as it naturally placed all the communication online where it was within my reach every time. Our team found a multitude of means for online collaboration and was inspired by them as well. I was also enjoying my superpower to focus for hours, which came back to me once the office distractions were off. At the same time, my focus at work moved to implementing UI library components, filling the gap between our past developments and new architecture.

Lockdown at home with my boyfriend brought much introspection and made me realize how much not at home I was feeling. I made a wearable art piece. I made laser cut stencils with evacuation signs, spray painted fabric, and sawn a coat. It was a pleasure to realize the skill I had only got just slightly rusty. I experimented more, with different fabrics and batik techniques, learning to let the dyes flow conveying the nature of the material, or stop them with wax. After the lockdown, despite the far going plans we split with my boyfriend.  

Back at the office new developers were joining our team, I was onboarding them with the codebase, discussing the practices we want to use, and delivering my features and designs for the new ones. As it goes in Alan Cooper's "Inmates are Running the Asylum," my first book on UX design, only then I realized in what conflicted position I put myself in, as it made it difficult to speak of new UI patterns and features, yet defend the consistency and quick deliverability of the results. I was getting burnt out, not only with work, but I was good at turning everything into work, doing things that were bringing fun and pleasure even when I didn't want to, and trying to bring about progress and improvement in my artistic skills. I asked to change my role at work to one of a designer, proposing myself as a UXE but we needed a product designer. 

An old friend, whom I always knew as an artist, whose paintings seemed to reflect the deepest of my inexpressible feelings, became my life partner on this new journey into artistic life. I planned to continue the designer's day job while working with him on our artistic project ideas. Trying to live up to a new role everywhere wasn't such a brilliant idea. I lost my yoga practice, there wasn't much fulfillment from any work I did. My friend suggested I try rug tufting. I got a cheap loop-pile tufting gun and a frame. Physically intensive, loud, and completely new for me, the rug tufting became an outlet, where I could go on for a while with low expectations from myself. We dreamed up the twopack.gallery project. At home, I started experimenting with ideas for the online representation of the gallery: looking at the technologies used by generative artists, which made their work available on the web and in the physical world, brought great inspiration. 

As twopack.gallery we hope to encourage and facilitate artistic collaboration and exchange across different media and geography. We believe it's the artist in every human, who can make this world a better place.

As a product designer at work, I made prototypes in Figma, user tests, and qualitative analyses of the interviews. With our PO's help, we organized one Google Ventures design sprint, which I facilitated, made prototypes and processed the interviews. I later organized a series of workshops following the IDEO design kit and made a prototype of an app visualizing Social Impact Assessment results in Figma, prepared and processed interviews, and created a coded prototype using observablehq.com REPL notebooks. My team wanted to see more preliminary research along with my designs and improve the developer handout. 

A colleague mentioned that she took a Zen meditation retreat in a monastery in Uithuizen, the Netherlands. Feeling inspired by someone around me taking a silent retreat, I signed up for Gyoji week at Zen River temple. Just a week of what felt like a monastic living, the strong meditation practice they taught, and time in the library which I hadn't since school, all this encouraged me to proceed on my path. I returned home and remembered a book suggested by my yoga teacher friend - “Anatomy Trains” by Thomas W. Myers. To my pleasure, the book was starting with a chapter on systems thinking, which I was already familiar with but it's the Anatomy Trains book together with Yin Yoga, and Quigong practices that helped me to internalize the systems thinking approach, learn to apply it to my own body and further outwards.

Considering me in the UXE role again, we decided I work on better defining our design system and design-ops. I prepared an extensive inventory of our components in Figma and codebase, proposed a structure aligned with atomic design principles, and proposed several options for the implementation of the design-ops. 

At the same time, I realized more and more that I need to focus on my artistic pursuits instead. I came up with a way of organizing the time for my artistic work and hopefully finding supporters. I started “the work in progress” - podcast by twopack.gallery, where I would show my creative process in fine detail, whatever I'm doing, coding, painting, or sewing. I created the first two episodes using Remotion. The prototype worked not smoothly at all. The second prototype had to deal with a much greater length of video and was a complete rewrite. Extremely slow, the second episode took a week to render on my laptop, thanks to my stubbornness in not using AWS. Recording the third episode I implemented a proof of concept in ffmpeg-rust, switched to gstreamer, and with advice from the community to gstreamer editing services. I hope to help myself and other DIYers who want to share the fun of making.

Along with the day job it came very demanding on my time and energy, I tried GitHub Copilot and loved it. It was like I suddenly had a dumb older brother, who would do a lot of work for me in a second, yet I could discard my code without too much attachment. It made me feel brave enough to study video formats and the editing process much deeper, which I never thought I would.

With my partner, we started our move to Chiang Mai, Thailand, where we want to work on our project and one day open a physical gallery and co-creation space for local artists. We are far from our dream at this point but already open to artistic collaboration.

I believe more than ever that every person on Earth, and this is where I live, is equally important. Just like me, none deserve to be privileged or an authority, blinded by their ego. There're no bad people but the sum of experiences they've been through, their circumstances. Systems of subsystems with recursive loops. Relative and Absolute. Not the dots but the arrows that matter. The whole and it's every aspect. I believe artists in each of us must co-create a harmonious and peaceful world, where we want to live in.

I now ask for help. I want to dedicate my time and space to the twopack.gallery project, promote collaborations between artists, and show everyone they are creative and beautiful beings, who has something very important and unique to tell to this world. I hereby proclaim myself a communication artist, willing to help this world talk in a dialog. I look for part-time commissions on relevant topics and donations to enable our work on twopack.gallery project. I promise to stay transparent about both and to keep sharing my code, art, and ideas through the podcast and all other means.

As a Human, all we have is time, and I appreciate yours. 

